{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Some terms used in this manual have a special meaning.\
A 
\b Firmware
\b0  is the name for a program that runs on the Minicommand. It stands for the complete program that is uploaded as a hex file. A firmware can comprise multiple sketches (see 
\b Sketch
\b0  below). This distinction is a bit confusing because in Arduino (and in the Mididuino editor), 
\b Sketch
\b0  is often used to refer to a complete program. This is because it is customary for Minicommand firmwares to group together different functionalities (which are available as standalone sketches) into big firmwares called 
\b monster firmwares
\b0 . As it is, a 
\b Sketch 
\b0 in the Mididuino framework is a class representing a MIDI controller functionality that works as standalone as well. A 
\b firmware
\b0  refers to an actual program that can be downloaded to the device as a hex file.\
A 
\b Sketch
\b0  is a MIDI controller \'93program\'94. For example, a sketch could be an arpeggiator, or a standard MIDI controller sending CC messages when an encoder is turned. A 
\b Sketch
\b0  often is made out of different 
\b Pages
\b0 . In the Mididuino framework, a 
\b Sketch
\b0  is a class with a well-defined interface. Different 
\b Sketches 
\b0 can be grouped together into a single firmware which is called a 
\b monster firmware
\b0 .\
A 
\b Page
\b0  is a class in the Mididuino framework and represent a single view on the controller display. It controls the displaying of information, and how button presses and encoder movements are to be interpreted. For example, a 
\b Page
\b0  could display the value of four encoders sending out CC values. A 
\b Page
\b0  can also be used to control four parameters of an arpeggiator. More specific 
\b Pages
\b0  are for example a 
\b Page
\b0  used to switch between different other 
\b Pages
\b0  (a bit like a menu on a computer), or a 
\b modal page
\b0  asking for confirmation (Yes/No).}