{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The Minicommand is a fully opensource MIDI controller: both the hardware design and the software running on it are completely free and available online. Furthermore, it makes the task of writing new firmwares even easier by providing an extensive programming framework covering areas such as MIDI, GUI design, access to Elektron synthesizers, interfacing with the internal storage. Firmwares are written using a modified version of the Arduino editor, which allows you to upload new firmwares to the controller directly over MIDI.\
This manual describes the different functionality provided by the framework, by providing:\
- a programming reference, describing the API of each module,\
- tutorials describing how to write different useful firmwares,\
- a walkthrough through existing (and rather complex) firmwares, describing the design and implementation rationale behind them,\
- an in-depth description of technical challenges encountered along the way, hoping to explain some of the design and implementation decisions that were made.\
In this manual, we use the word \'93Minicommand\'94 to refer to the actual MIDI controller by Ruin & Wesen, available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ruinwesen.com/digital"}}{\fldrslt http://ruinwesen.com/digital}} . This is the main platform on which the framework runs. The words \'93Mididuino framework\'94 (which sadly is slightly confusing) refers to the framework itself. It is not based on Arduino, as all the code is completely separate from the libraries and cores of the Arduino project. However, the Minicommand uses an AVR ATmega64 microcontroller, which is similar to the one used on the different Arduino boards. However, the Minicommand provides 64 kB additional memory, meaning that the full-featured framework won\'92t run on a plain Arduino board. A stripped down version of the Mididuino framework is available as an add-on library for Arduino-014 at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ruinwesen.com/mididuino"}}{\fldrslt http://ruinwesen.com/mididuino}} . The \'93Mididuino editor\'94 is a modified version of the Arduino editor, which compiles firmwares using the Mididuino framework, and uploads them to the target device over MIDI. The Mididuino editor also features a few internal extensions allowing for a better integration of complex library dependencies, as they are present in the Mididuino framework.\
We use the masculine form of \'93programmer\'94 and \'93user\'94 in the rest of this book, out of commodity, and hope that a female reader will make the appropriate adjustments.}